% copyright 2015 David Roundy daveroundy@gmail.com

% All rights reserved.  You have permission to distribute this paper
% without modification in either source code format, or in PDF format.

\documentclass[letterpaper,twocolumn,amsmath,amssymb,pre,aps,10pt]{revtex4-1}

\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{listings}

\begin{document}

\title{The Onion Salt Layered Encryption Scheme}
\author{David Roundy}
\affiliation{Department of Physics, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331}

\begin{abstract}
  In this paper, I introduce a layered ``onion'' encryption scheme
  based on the NaCl library.  The onion salt protocol uses a slightly
  modified NaCl decryption for each layer, with a padding scheme that
  ensures that no intermediate agent can determine their own position
  in the sequence.  Nevertheless, each agent is able to ensure that
  the message was transmitted without modification of any routing
  information, although the payload intended for the recipient is only
  authenticated by the recipient.  The protocol allows for a
  round-trip onion with the recipient including a response to the
  message, with no router able to discern either who originated the
  messare or who was the recipient, and with each router only knowing
  the addresses of the routers before and after them in the sequence.
\end{abstract}

\maketitle

Onion routing was introduced in the nineties as a means to enable
anonymity over the network~\cite{reed1998onionrouting}.  Since then
Tor has moved from a system using self-contained onions, to a
telescoping set of channels~\cite{dingledine2004tor}.  Nevertheless, I
see value in a cryptographic primitive that enables the secure
construction of cryptographic onions to enable anonymizing routing of
short messages without the latency introduced by handshakes with each
intermediate router, and without that state be shared between the
routers and the sender.  By requiring multiple packets sent back and
forth, besides increasing latency, the use of sequential handshakes
introduces opportunities for traffic analysis attacks.  The use of
shared state introduces an additional per-connection cost to each
router, as well as the possibility of denial of service (DOS) attacks
in which an attacker opens numerous connections.

\newcommand\Nrouter{\ensuremath{N_{\text{router}}}}

\section{Properties of onion salt}

I introduce in this paper the \emph{onion salt} encryption scheme,
which uses the Networking and Cryptography library
(NaCl)~\cite{bernstein2009cryptography}, with one small modification,
for its grunt work.  This protocol creates an onion that is encrypted
to $\Nrouter$ ``routers,'' one of which is the ``recipient.''  The
onion contains plaintext designated for each party: routing
information for each router, and in addition a secret message
(``payload'') for the recipient.  The original onion can only be
decrypted by the first router, who thus obtains its routing
information and a message designated for the next router.  The
recipient in general is not the final receiver of the message, but
rather has the ability to attach a response payload to the message,
which can be received and read by originator of the onion, provided
the originator gives the final router his own address as the next
router.  The onion salt encryption scheme has the following
properties.
\begin{description}
\item[Secrecy] No eavesdropper without access to a given recipient's
  secret key may determine the plaintext intended for that recipient,
  even after intercepting every transmitted message.
\item[Authenticity] Each recipient can determine that the message
  received was not modified in any way, with the exception of the
  \emph{payload}, which is separately authenticated but only by the
  recipient (and the sender, in case of a response payload).
\item[Anonymity] No recipient can determine from the content of the
  message they received the identity of any other party involved,
  except for the routing information they may have been provided.  Of
  course, they most likely will also be able to identify who sent them
  the message by examining the transport used.
\item[Ordering ambiguity] No router can determine their place in
  the sequence of onion layers.  This last poses the challenge that
  motivates this work.  The previous three properties can be achieved
  simply by nesting NaCl encryption.  However, that would make each
  message larger than the previous one, making it easy for routers to
  establish a relative ordering between their messages.
\end{description}
In the following paragraphs I will explain the relevance of each of
these properties.

\emph{Secrecy} and \emph{authenticity} are at the core of any secure
communication scheme.  These are the two properties provided by the
NaCl \verb!crypto_box! function which we use.  However, we actually
use a modified version, which does \emph{not} authenticate the payload
content until its reception by its recipient.  This is needed in order
to enable the recipient to place information in the payload to be
relayed on.

\begin{figure*}
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{decryption-0}
  \end{center}
  \caption{A diagram of the decryption process removing one layer of
    the onion---here the first layer.  Blocks of memory are
    represented by rectangles, and as those blocks are encrypted they
    are filled with colored hash lines corresponding to each
    encryption applied, which are removed with each decryption.  In
    step 1, the sender's public key is extracted, and the message is
    padded with zeros on the left and before the payload.  In step 2,
    the message is decrypted, which at the same time encrypts the zero
    padding in the middle.  Finally, once the routing information $R0$
    has been read, the message is truncated to the same size as the
    original message, and is ready to be passed
    on.}\label{fig:decryption}
\end{figure*}

The authenticity property as we implement it eliminates any potential
attackes that involve cleverly modifying an intercepted message
(e.g. flipping a few specific bits) and observing the resulting
behavior of its recipient, and ultimately compromising the secrecy of
the message.  A simpler approach would separately authenticate to each
router just the routing information for that router.  However, this
would leave open an attack in which one compromised router
communicates with a later compromised router in the sequence by
modifying a few bits of its routing information, enabling it to
identify packets that match.  By having each router authenticate
\emph{all} the routing information, an intermediate uncompromised
router would refuse to relay on such a modified packet.

The \emph{anonymity} of the sender is primarily ensured by generating
random key pairs for each recipient and transmitting the generated
public key along with the message.  Because each key pair is used only
once, although an eavesdropper can extract the public key from each
message, that information cannot be correlated with the sender.  In
addition, because each key pair is only used once, a fixed nonce may
be safely used.  Naturally, the secrecy of each router's message is
also necessary in order to ensure the sender's anonymity.  Also note
that my definition of anonymity explicitly made no claim regarding
traffic analysis attacks.  Naturally, if a user's threat model
includes an observer of network patterns (which might, for instance,
be performed by compromised routers), then additional care care---such
as batching or random delays in transmission---should be used to
protect against traffic analysis attacks.

Note that the sender may choose whether to remain anonymous to the
recipient.  To remain anonymous, the sender would generate a random
key pair for the payload, while to authenticate her identity, the
sender would encrypt the payload itself using her known public key.

Finally, \emph{ordering ambiguity} while not strictly necessary,
provides an additional measure of protection of anonymity in the
presence of malicious routers.  Simple padding with random data would
provide a limited ordering ambiguity that could prevent a network
observer from determining ordering.  However, if each router knew how
much authenticated data remained, traffic analysis by compromised
nodes could operate far more effectively when the ordering of messages
can be determined or estimated, easily eliminating half of the false
positives.  In the extreme case---where latency and ordering are
precisely known---a compromise of just a few routers in the sequence
could effectively remove the anonymity of a message.  This property
presents a challenge, because each router must be able to believe that
the entire routing portion of the onion consists of actual
uncompromised data.  Our solution is that each router must pad the
data it sends on with pseudorandom padding that is known to the
original sender, but not knowable to any other party.  Then the sender
can create authentication data for each recipient that authenticates
not only the actual important content, but also the padding.

\section{Decryption as a router}

I will begin with the decryption algorithm for an ordinary router,
illustrated in Fig.~\ref{fig:decryption}, which is simpler than
encryption.  Decryption consists of just three steps.
\begin{enumerate}
\item First the randomly-generated public key (which occupies the
  first 32 bytes) is read and removed from the message.  The message
  is then padded at the beginning with 16 bytes of zeros (as required
  by NaCl), and is zero-padded just before the payload with 48 bytes
  plus the size of the routing information.
\item The padded message is passed to a modified version of the NaCl
  function \verb!crypto_box_open! with a zero nonce, which decrypts
  the entire message, and authenticates all but the final payload
  portion of the message, in the process encrypting the zero padding
  that was inserted in the middle.  We note that in practice we modify
  the TweetNaCl implementation of NaCl for
  simplicity~\cite{bernstein2014tweetnacl}.
\item Finally, the decrypted routing information is read and stripped
  off, leaving a message of the same size as the original, padded with
  pseudorandom data in the center, and with the next
  randomly-generated public key at the beginning.
\end{enumerate}
One unusual feature of this scheme is the the \emph{ciphertext} is
padded with zeros in its interior prior to decryption and
authentication.  Also unusual is that our authentication does not
apply to the final portion of the message.

\begin{figure*}
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{encryption}
  \end{center}
  \caption{A diagram of the encryption process, for a three-layer
    onion.  The steps are labelled by numbers in circles along the
    left-hand side. Blocks of memory are represented by rectangles,
    and as those blocks are encrypted they are given nested colored
    layers corresponding to each encryption applied.  Steps 0-4
    construct the padding needed for the innermost encryption, the
    core of the onion.  Step 5 inserts the secret information into the
    core.  Steps 6-10 encrypt that content in layers, along with
    routing information (the addresses $a_i$) at each outer layer of
    the onion.  In addiiton, session public keys $P_i$ are included
    along with the ciphertext sent to each recipient.  Finally, I
    note the authentication data $A_i$ at each level, which is the
    final contribution to the space overhead introduced with each
    layer.}\label{fig:algorithm}
\end{figure*}

\section{The encryption algorithm}

The first step in creating an onion salt is to generate one ephemeral
key pair for each recipient.  These keys will be used for each
encryption.  A cartoon of the process is shown in
Fig.~\ref{fig:algorithm}.  The encryption process is naturally more
complicated than decryption, since it must deal with all layers.  The
encryption proceeds in two stages.  First, the padding is constructed,
and then the plaintext for all the recipients is inserted and
encrypted.  The first stage consists of the following steps, starting
with a message full of zeros.
\begin{enumerate}
\item Shift the routing information to the left by 48 bytes plus the
  size of the routing information, and zero-fill the gap that was thus
  opened up.
\item Encrypt the resulting plaintext to the next recipient.
\item Repeat this process once for each router, including the
  recipient.
\end{enumerate}
Once we have generated the padding, we need to insert the plaintext
content (the secret message payload and the routing information) and
encrypt.  This process involves:
\begin{enumerate}
\item Insert the plaintext routing information for the current router.
  If this is the recipient, then also insert the payload, \emph{after}
  encrypting it to them with a user-specified key pair, using the
  randomly-generated emphemeral public key as a nonce.  The encryption
  of the payload uses a potentially different key pair (which is only
  ephemeral if the message is to be anonymous to the recipient), and
  uses the randomly-generated and ephemeral public key used for
  routing as the nonce.  This is intended to statistically ensure the
  uniqueness of the nonce in case the keys used are static, to avoid
  reusing a nonce.
\item The message is then encrypted to the recipient of the
  currently-constructed message.  If no mistakes have been made, this
  encryption will result in zeros at the end of the routing
  information.
\item Shift the routing information to the right to eliminate the gap
  of zeros, and then add the plaintext content consisting of the
  routing information for the next recipient and the ephemeral public
  key that recipient will use when decrypting.
\item Return to step 1, if there is another router.
\end{enumerate}
As in the case of decryption, the NaCl \texttt{crypto\_box} encryption
routine (even modified to not authenticate the payload portion of the
message) requires zero padding at the beginning of the message in
addition to that which we add in the middle.

\begin{figure*}
  \begin{center}
    Router 1\\
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{decryption-1}
    Recipient\\
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{decryption-2}
    Router 3\\
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{decryption-3}
    Router 4\\
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{decryption-4}
    Router 5\\
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{decryption-5}
  \end{center}
  \caption{A diagram of the decryption and responding
    process.}\label{fig:decryption-and-responding}
\end{figure*}

\begin{figure*}
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{return-key}
  \end{center}
  \caption{Finding the return key.}\label{fig:return-key}
\end{figure*}

\section{Decryption and responding as recipient}

The purpose of \emph{not} authenticating the payload at each layer of
the onion is to enable the recipient to send a response without giving
the recipient any information about the sender beyond what is included
in the payload, and moreover without allowing any other router to
determine if it precedes or follows the recipient.  Specifically, the
recipient cannot determine who the sender is (unless such information
is included in the payload).  Moreover, no party other than the
recipient (which includes the other routers, and any network observer)
can determine which router is the recipient, provided care is taken to
avoid timing attacks, for instance by incorporating a fixed (or
randomized) delay in the forwarding of messages, such that the
recipient has time to read the payload and encrypt the response before
the packet would otherwise be expected to be sent to the following
router.

Figure~\ref{fig:decryption-and-responding} illustrates the entire
sequence of messages passed between all routers following the first
one, which was already shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:decryption}.  Note that
the colored patterns representing encryption with various keys are
consistent across
Figs.~\ref{fig:decryption}-\ref{fig:decryption-and-responding},
representing the encryption of a single onion, followed by transmision
and decryption through the circuit.

The recipient has a somewhat more convoluted process than would
otherwise be required to insert the payload, because it is assumed
that the recipient will not recognize her role as recipient until
after decrypting and reading the routing information, which may be
presumed to include a flag indicating that she is the recipient, and
should therefore examine the payload.  An alternative approach that
would be more resistent to timing attacks---but less resistent to
denial-of-service (DOS) attacks---would be have each router attempt to
decrypt the payload to its secret key, and use the authentication of
that decryption to determine whether they are the recipient.  On the
whole, this process does not seem warranted, when the routers can
defeat timing attacks more efficiently by simply sleeping until a
determined time (e.g. a random interval after receiving the packet, or
a time specified in the routing information).

The reciever, once she has identified herself as such, can immediately
examine the payload, which presumably is itself encrypted and
authenticated to her public key.  Having done so, she constructs her
response, which is also encrypted and authenticated.  The response is
encrypted to the same key that encrypted the original payload, but
with a random nonce, which is included at the beginning of the
response.  Because the response payload is encrypted and
indistinguishable from random, we simply overwrite the original
payload without applying an additional layer of encryption.  For
simplicity, this encryption is not reflected in the figure.

The subsequent routers (routers 3, 4, and 5 in our example) are
unaware that they are relaying a response rather than the original
payload.  In the usual case, the final router is given the sender's
address.  The sender will decrypt the response by encrypting it (or
decrypting without authentication) to each of the keys of the routers
following the recipient.  This will restore the response to what the
recipient inserted, which can then be decrypted and authenticated.

\section{Extensions}

An obvious extension to this scheme is to enable different routers to
recieve and respond to different portions of the payload.  To achieve
this, the routing information would inform each router which
randomized portion of the payload to read and respond to. This could
enable collection of information from an entire circuit in one
message.  The procedure would be similar in essence to the
single-recipient case, and we will consider it no further in this
paper.

Another alternative is that the circuit need not return to the
original sender.  One could either use the protocol to send
information in a single direction, or the sender could cause the
recipient to relay information to a third party.  The latter would
require a second message to inform the third party of the shared
secrets needed to decrypt the ``response.''

\section{Analysis}

Most of the security properties claimed for onion salt derive from
those of the NaCl \texttt{crypto\_box} function (secrecy and
authentication), and from the generation of new random key pairs for
each recipient (anonymity).  The ordering ambiguity derives from the
padding scheme.  There are, however, a few features of this scheme
that bear examination lest they violate the preconditions needed for
NaCl to provide the desired secrecy and authentication.

One such feature is the use of a zero nonce.  I believe this is safe
because we only use each key pair to send a single message.
Similarly, the use of the ephemeral public key as nonce for the
encryption of the payload should be safe because it is an essentially
random sequence of 32 bytes, which has negligible chance of
collision.  Finally, the use of a purely random nonce for the
encryption of the response should be safe for the same reason.

There are two more challenging risks in this scheme, because they are
significant deviations from the standard NaCl scheme.  The first is
the unusual use of padding to ensure that a block of \emph{ciphertext}
is zero.  The second is the partial authentication that allows
modification of the payload block by the responder.

The zero padding means that we encrypt twice with the same key pair
and nonce, which has the potential for danger when using stream
ciphers.  However, the only bytes that are encrypted twice which we
use are those that were originally zero.  The recipient of padded
bytes generated using this encryption gains the same knowledge about
our stream cipher that an opponent would gain using a known-plaintext
attack.  Because I believe the Salsa20 stream cipher is resistent to
known-plaintext attacks, I also believe that there should not be an
exploit that can take advantage of the nature of this padding.

The second risk is in the modification to not authenticate the payload
portion of the message.  This could lead to an attack in which a
router modifies the payload.  One such attack would be an attack
involving a malicious recipient cooperating with a malicious router.
The router xors the payload with a given byte sequence.  When the
recipient observes that the payload fails to authenticate, then the
recipient xors the payload with that byte sequence, and when the
message does authenticate, has confirmed that this was the same
message that had been forwarded by the router.  Thus in spite of one
or more honest routers in between them, they could connect a payload
sent to the recipient with the node that sent the message to the first
router.  This is a variant of the same attack that authenticating the
total routing information was intended to prevent.  However, this
attack requires that an attacker control the recipient, which
statistically gives considerably less power than the router-router
version.  This attack does require that the malicious router modify
the payload prior to knowing with confidence that the message might be
interesting.  Moreover, attempts to perform this attack can be
detected, since if the recipient turns out to not be malicious, the
message will not be received, that the sender will be forced to assume
(correctly) that one of the routers was unreliable.  Thus it is
possible that this attack will be alleviated by having nodes evaluate
the reliablility of routers prior to sending sensitive information.

Another final question is that of timing attacks.  NaCl itself is
constructed to be resistant to such attacks, because branches never
depend on secret data, and array indexing never depends on secret
data.  A timing attack on the creation of an onion could certainly
reveal how many layers it has, and possibly some information about the
slowness of the random byte generator, but should not reveal any more
information.  Decryption of a single layer by a router should happen
in fixed time, independent of the data involved, and thus should be
resistant to timing attacks, except that a recipient will need to
spend more time to analyze data and respond.  Thus a protocol using
onion salt encryption should implement additional protection from
timing attacks.

\section{Computational cost}

The cost to create an onion costs approximately $\Nrouter+1$ times the
cost to encrypt an equal-sized message to each recipient.  A router's
decryption costs essentially the same as an NaCl
\verb!crypto_box_open! decryption, which is quite fast.  The recipient
performs one additional decryption, plus \verb!crypto_box! encryption
of the response.  I anticipate that these computational costs will be
entirely within reason, and will be dwarfed by the network costs of
relaying a message through multiple routers.

\section{Conclusions}

I have introduced a new encryption protocol, onion salt, which creates
a nested sequence of encryptions suitable for onion-style routing of
fixed-size packets without handshake or prior shared secrets.  This
protocol has the properties of secrecy, authentication of each layer,
anonymity, and order ambiguity.  Moreover, it allows for a response to
be relayed to the original sender without the recipient being able to
learn the identity or network address of the sender.  Order ambiguity
means that routers are unable to determine their position in the
sequence, and in particular cannot determine which router is the
sender or recipient.  The cost of this order ambiguity is in padding
of data, as well as increasing the amount of data that need be
encrypted.  I believe this scheme could be valuable for low-bandwidth
anonymous communication, in which the overhead of a hand-shake
protocol would both dominate the network traffic and increase
vulnerability to attacks by compromised routers or a network observer.

%% Tarzan is a low-latency peer-to-peer anonymizing layer that acts at
%% the IP level~\cite{freedman2002tarzan}.  The second-generation Tor
%% router uses a telescaping connection-based encryption
%% scheme~\cite{dingledine2004tor} rather than the ``onion-based'' system
%% of the original onion routing~\cite{reed1998onionrouting}.  Note that
%% the latter paper (the old one) is actually a very nice
%% read~\cite{reed1998onionrouting}.  Aqua is an interesting and recent
%% high-bandwidth anonymizing network~\cite{leblond2013towards}.

%% Here is a nice paper to read on distributed hash tables and security
%% considerations involved~\cite{sit2002security}.  And here is a nice
%% one about how you need a critical mass in order to ensure
%% anonymity~\cite{dingledine2006anonymity}.

\bibliography{onionsalt}% Produces the bibliography via BibTeX.

%% \appendix

%% \begin{widetext}

%% \section{onionsalt.h}

%% \lstinputlisting[language=C]{../src/onionsalt.h}

%% \section{onionsalt.c}

%% \lstinputlisting[language=C]{../src/onionsalt.c}

%% \end{widetext}

\end{document}
